New whitepaper - introduction (#231)
okp4/docs: docs/whitepaper/introduction.md

Knowledge is the limiting factor to the common good for individuals, companies and society at large.

Knowledge, in its various forms, is a powerful catalyst for progress and innovation, impacting all areas of human endeavor from economic growth and social development to technological advancement and cultural enrichment.

- Knowledge is infinite, unlike any material good
- Knowledge is valuable, it holds the key to all problem-solving
- Knowledge is power, it can change the world for everyone's benefit

Our knowledge is inherently limited by the way it is created and shared. This creation begins with data - the raw material gathered by humans or machines through observation. This data serves as the inputs that enable us to train our algorithmic minds and interpret the world. Upon being contextualized and interpreted, this data becomes knowledge.

However, despite the omnipresence of data and algorithms, our knowledge remains limited. Why is this? **Because data and algorithms are not shared.**, essentially because of deficits of trust and incentives.

> This is where the decentralized web steps in, capable of reshuffling the cards in terms of knowledge creation and dissemination. The decentralized web holds the key for a fair and trusted infrastructure to share any existing dataset and algorithms, while tokens give innovating tools to incentivize collaboration. Within this context, OKP4 sets out to capitalize on the virtues of both Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with the goal of propelling the knowledge economy to the next level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where the decentralized web steps in, capable of reshuffling the cards in terms of knowledge creation and dissemination. The decentralized web holds the key for a fair and trusted infrastructure to share any existing datasets and algorithms, while tokens give innovating tools to incentivize collaboration. Within this context, OKP4 sets out to capitalize on the virtues of both Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with the goal of propelling the knowledge economy to the next level.
```

- Confidentiality
- Security
- Interoperability
- Provider dependence
- Sovereignty

Despite their benefits, the drawbacks associated with centralized data management systems necessitate exploring alternative approaches.

### Web 3.0 Solutions

In light of data sharing, blockchain technologies play a crucial role. They can offer a secure, transparent, and decentralized infrastructure, extending their value beyond financial transactions to peer-to-peer data exchanges and secure collaborations. This is increasingly important in a data-driven world where privacy, security, and the ability to customize solutions are paramount. Hence, the relevance of blockchain technology in creating a more open and interconnected world of secure data sharing is profound, and its potential stretches across numerous sectors.

Ethereum expanded decentralization principles by introducing programmable smart contracts, enabling the development of numerous decentralized applications (dApps). However, Ethereum's broad scope comes with its own limitations. As a general-purpose platform, it may not always provide the most efficient solution for every use case.

> Given the sensitivity of the data and knowledge sector, it's crucial that the infrastructure is as resilient and neutral as possible. Moreover, due to the intricacy of this field, there's a specific design requirement that fosters sharing while managing these complexities efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the sensitivity of the data and knowledge sector, the infrastructure must be as resilient and neutral as possible. Moreover, due to the intricacy of this field, there's a specific design requirement that fosters sharing while managing these complexities efficiently.
```

Specific Web 3.0 solutions are designed to offer specific functionalities such as decentralized storage, computation, indexing, and data validation for instance.

- Decentralized storage solutions like [Arweave](https://www.arweave.org/) or [Filecoin](https://filecoin.io/) offer secure and robust data storage, crucial for any data and knowledge management system.
- [The Graph](https://thegraph.com/), a decentralized indexing solution, facilitates efficient data retrieval from blockchains through a GraphQL API, simplifying developer interaction with blockchain data.
- [Kyve](https://www.kyve.network/), a decentralized data validation network, ensures data integrity and reliability, both essential for data management.
- [Akash](https://akash.network/), a decentralized marketplace to buy and sell computing resources
- [Secret Network](https://scrt.network/), offering decentralized privacy-preserving solutions such as Homomorphic Encryption

> - Other notable initiatives to valorize data include for exemple [Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) specializing in data markets, [DIMO](https://dimo.zone/) incentivizing vehicule data sharing or [Hivemapper] incentivizing mapping data collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Other notable initiatives to valorize data include for exemple [Ocean Protocol](https://oceanprotocol.com/) specializing in data markets, [DIMO](https://dimo.zone/) incentivizing vehicule data sharing or [Hivemapper] incentivizing mapping data collection.
```

To reach this purpose, the challenges are divided into two distinct sections:

- **The Human Issues:**: Removing, as much as possible, the need for trust between participants through on-chain rules definition and enforcement. Creating powerful incentives to share and consume off-chain resources through the protocol.
- **The Technical Issues**: Building the actual resources, tools, and systems needed to store, process, and transfer information.

OKP4 aims to establish a system that encourages collaboration, co-creation, and knowledge sharing while ensuring and respecting individual consents and interests. As a neutral and public good, OKP4 focuses on addressing Technical solutions to provide an agnostic, flexible and secure infrastructure to solve Human Issues. The real challenge is to provide a solution that is simultaneously flexible enough to meet the needs of various stakeholders, expressive enough to interpret and interoperate different components, and secure enough to be executed within a trustworthy environment.

> From a technical standpoint, OKP4 offers a unique solution, deftly combining the virtues of openness and decentralization with the adaptive potential of interoperability and modularity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a technical standpoint, OKP4 offers a unique solution, deftly combining the virtues of **openness** and **decentralization** with the adaptive potential of **interoperability** and **modularity**.
```

Knowledge is the limiting factor to the common good for individuals, companies and society at large.

Knowledge, in its various forms, is a powerful catalyst for progress and innovation, impacting all areas of human endeavor from economic growth and social development to technological advancement and cultural enrichment.

- Knowledge is infinite, unlike any material good
- Knowledge is valuable, it holds the key to all problem-solving
- Knowledge is power, it can change the world for everyone's benefit

Our knowledge is inherently limited by the way it is created and shared. This creation begins with data - the raw material gathered by humans or machines through observation. This data serves as the inputs that enable us to train our algorithmic minds and interpret the world. Upon being contextualized and interpreted, this data becomes knowledge.

However, despite the omnipresence of data and algorithms, our knowledge remains limited. Why is this? **Because data and algorithms are not shared**, essentially because of deficits of trust and incentives.

> This is where the decentralized web steps in, capable of reshuffling the cards in terms of knowledge creation and dissemination. The decentralized web holds the key for a fair and trusted infrastructure to share any existing dataset and algorithms, while tokens give innovating tools to incentivize collaboration. Within this context, OKP4 sets out to capitalize on the virtues of both Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with the goal of propelling the knowledge economy to the next level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is where the decentralized web steps in, capable of reshuffling the cards in terms of knowledge creation and dissemination. The decentralized web holds the key for a fair and trusted infrastructure to share any existing dataset and algorithms, while tokens give innovating tools to incentivize collaboration. Within this context, OKP4 sets out to capitalize on the virtues of both Web 2 and Web 3 with the goal of propelling the knowledge economy to the next level.
```

I think Web3 and Web3.0 have different meanings
